# zebra
A homebrew computer on the basis of the Z80

Since the invention of home computers, the public has become increasingly unfamiliar with how computers work, viewing them as magical black boxes. This trend has been fuelled by the growing number of layers of abstraction between users and computers. In my personal quest to understand the wonders of computing, I have stripped away these layers of abstraction to discover the inner workings. To do so, I built my own computer: Zebra.
In the heart of Zebra lies the Z80, an infamous 8-bit CPU from the 1980s. Around the CPU are peripheral chips that are responsible for multiple subsystems. I designed a circuit board to connect these components and had it produced. I also modelled and 3D-printed a case for the computer to house the components. 
The finished computer has a built-in keyboard to act as the main user input. It also has a serial connection that can be used to connect Zebra to a another computer. Internally, it has access to a timer and counter circuit, which is useful for precise timing. For instance, the audio generation system can use these timings to enable the computer to play any 8-bit music. The computer can also connect to a VGA screen and display 16 different colours at a resolution of 320 × 200 pixels. Finally, I programmed a clone of the arcade game Snake to demonstrate some of Zebra's capabilities.
This project has not only given me a great insight into low-level computing, but also taught me about PCB design and manufacturing, 3D printing, assembly programming, and much more. While the computer achieved all goals I set for it, there is still much more that could be done. For example, I could program a clone of the game Pong or a script to display keyboard inputs on the monitor.
